Welcome back, ROS provides a powerful build and package management system called Catkin.
Willow Garage the early developers of ROS named
Catkin after the flowers on the Willow trees surrounding their office.
A Catkin workspace is essentially a directory where
Catkin packages are both modified and installed.
Typically, when you develop a ROS-based robot or project,
you work out of a single workspace.
This singular workspace will hold a wide variety of Catkin packages.
All ROS software components are organized into and distributed as Catkin packages.
Similar to workspaces, Catkin packages are nothing
more than directories containing a variety of resources.
Catkin packages can contain source code for nodes,
useful scripts, configuration files, and more.
In the section that follow,
you see how to create a Catkin workspace,
add packages to the Catkin workspace,
manage inter-package dependencies, how to successfully compile everything,
and lastly, how to use launch files to run nodes.